Issue #408: Event analyzer updates (#466)
elastic/security-docs: docs/detections/visual-event-analyzer.asciidoc

[[find-events-analyze]]
=== Find events to analyze

> You can only visualize events triggered by hosts configured with the Elastic Endpoint Security Integration or any sysmon data for `winlogbeat`. 

Reviewer: nit: maybe "**or any sysmon events from `winlogbeat`**"

In KQL, this translates to any event with the `agent.type` set to either: 

- `endpoint`

> - `winlogbeat` with `event.module` set to `sysmon`.

Reviewer: 👍

To access events that can be visually analyzed:

1. In Elastic Security, select **Hosts** > **Events**. A list of all your host's events appears in the bottom panel of the host's view.

> 2. Create a KQL query that filters all `endpoint` detected events by entering `agent.type: endpoint and process.entity_id : *` or `agent.type: winlogbeat, event.modile: sysmon, process.entity_id : *` into the KQL search bar, and then select **Update**.

Reviewer: **or `agent.type: winlogbeat and event.module: sysmon and process.entity_id : *`**

+
[role="screenshot"]
image::images/analyze-event.png[]
+
Any events that cannot be analyzed will contain the warning "This event cannot be analyzed since it has incompatible field mappings."
[role="screenshot"]

> image::images/incompatible-field-mappings.png[]

Author: Should be adjusted now.

Inside the visual analyzer, each cube represents a process (i.e. an executable file or network event). Click and drag in timeline view to see all process relationships. 

To help understand what field were used to create the process, select the **Process Tree** to view the schema that created the graphical view. The fields included are:

-`SOURCE`: Can be either `endpoint` or `winlogbeat`.

> - `ID`: What KQL entity created the process.

Reviewer: hmm _KQL_ is a query language, maybe this instead: **`ID`: The field from events (or maybe documents?) used to uniquely identify a node**

> - `EDGE`: The parent of the process ID.

Reviewer: The schema is really meant to describe which fields are being used from the documents to represent the nodes and edges in the graph.

Maybe something like: **`EDGE`: The field from the events used to indicate the parent and child relationship between nodes**

Reviewer 2: Agree with changing the description of edge, maybe even instead of "indicate the parent and child relationship" "indicate the  association between two nodes" or something even more generic.

> - `EDGE`: Event field which indicates the relationship between two nodes.

Reviewer 3: Line 43: 
`You can also analyze events from <<timelines-ui,Timelines>>`

You need to add a period at the end of the sentence. This would also be better wrapped in a `TIP`.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/process-schema.png[]

Use the **Node Legend** to know the state of each process symbol.

[role="screenshot"]

> image::images/node-legend.png[]

Author: I'll go back around and include the magnify feature once this is merged in.

Inside the visual analyzer, each cube represents a process (i.e. an executable file or network event). Click and drag in timeline view to see all process relationships. 

> To help understand what field were used to create the process, select the **Process Tree** to view the schema that created the graphical view. The fields included are:

Reviewer 3: Either `what field was used` or `what fields were used`.

> To see more details about each related process, select the process either in the left panel or the graphical view. The information on the process appears in the left panel, which typically includes but isn't limited to:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To see more details about each related process, select the process either in the left panel or the graphical view. The left panel displays process details such as:

* The number of events associated with the process.
* The timestamp when the process was executed.
* The file path of the process within the host.
* The `process-pid`.
* The user name and domain that ran the process.
* Any other relevant process information. 

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/process-details.png[]

> Loading process appear in a loading state when selecting that process for the first time. If loading data for a given process fails, simply click **Reload {process-name}** underneath the process to reload the data.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When you first select a process, it appears in a loading state. If loading data for a given process fails, click **Reload `{process-name}`** beneath the process to reload the data.
```

Reviewer 3: Adding a comment for lines 112-117 since I can't click the + sign due to the line number change. Let me know if the suggested change is hard to see. Also double-check `event.type` change to `event.category` - that's what it's named in the UI but I could be wrong. 

Original: 
`When selecting an `event.type`, a list of all those types of events appears in the left panel. If you want further details on the event, choose the event from the list. Event details appear in the left panel. 
[role="screenshot"]
image::event-details.png[]
In Elastic Security 7.10 and later, there is no limit to the number of events that can be associated with a process. However, in 7.9, each process is limited to only 100 events.`

```suggestion
When you select an `event.category`, pill, all the events within that category are listed in the left panel. To view more details about a specific event, select it from the list.
[role="screenshot"]
image::event-details.png[]
NOTE: In {stack} version >= 7.10.0, there is no limit to the number of events that can be associated with a process. However, in {stack} minor versions <= 7.9.0, each process is limited to only 100 events.
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/process-details.png[]

Loading process appear in a loading state when selecting that process for the first time. If loading data for a given process fails, simply click **Reload {process-name}** underneath the process to reload the data.

> See event details by selecting the **# events** URL at the top of the process details view or choosing one of the event pills in the graphical view.

Reviewer 3: - `**# events** URL` - is this intentional? 
- "choosing one of the event pills" - I believe these are child processes (processes that spawned from the main process) - @jonathan-buttner or @kqualters-elastic or should we call these "events"? I want to make sure we get the terminology correct - thanks!

Reviewer: When we say _**event pills**_ we're talking about the rectangles in the image below (e.g. 491 authentication). I think I'm fine with _**event pills**_ or _**process pills**_, the pills represent event categories but you could also say a particular process (node in the graph) has pills.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/56361221/106057048-697fca00-60bd-11eb-966a-417c63bfa422.png)

Events are categorized based on their `event.category`.

[role="screenshot"]

> image::event-type.png[]

Reviewer: Just a heads up these images might be broken. When I view this file directly in your branch they show up like this:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/56361221/105748691-7c08d080-5f10-11eb-898e-492eae49590a.png)

Author: This should be good. These images appear in the preview link: https://security-docs_466.docs-preview.app.elstc.co/guide/en/security/master/visual-event-analyzer.html
